---
author: Keke Wang, Qiong Chen, Yongliang Feng, Hailan Yang, Weiwei Wu, Ping Zhang, Ying Wang, Jamie Ko, Feng Zhao, Wenqiong Du, Feifei Yang, Tianbi Han, Suping Wang, Yawei Zhang 1
date: 2019-07-05
slug: CDKAL1
title: "Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms in CDKAL1 Gene Are Associated with Risk of Gestational Diabetes Mellitus in Chinese Population."
---

Gestational diabetes mellitus(GDM) is a growing public health concern for many reasons, and its etiology remains unclear. 
Due to the similarity of its pathophysiology with type 2 diabetes (T2DM), 
we evaluated the relationship between published T2DM susceptibility genes and the risk of GDM. 

A total of 303 SNPs from genes including IRS1, IGF2BP2, CDKAL1, GCK, TCF7L2, KCNQ1, and KCNJ11 and the risk of GDM were 
examined in a nested case-control study with 321 GDM cases and 316 controls. 
The odds ratios (ORs) and their 95% conﬁdence interval (95% CI) were estimated by unconditional logistical regression 
as a measure of the associations between genotypes and GDM in additive, recessive, dominant, and codominant models 
adjusting for maternal age, maternal BMI, parity, and family history of diabetes. 
At the gene level, CDKAL1 was associated with GDM risk. 
SNPs in the CDKAL1 gene including rs4712527, rs7748720, rs9350276, and rs6938256 were associated 
with reduced GDM risk. However, SNPs including rs9295478, rs6935599, and rs7747752 were associated with 
elevated GDM risk. After adjusting for multiple comparisons, rs9295478 and rs6935599 were still signiﬁcant 
across the additive, recessive, and codominant models; rs7748720 and rs6938256 were signiﬁcant in dominant and 
codominant models; and rs4712527 was only signiﬁcant in the codominant model. 

Our study provides evidence for an association between the CDKAL1 gene and risk of GDM. However, its role in the GDM pathogenesis still needs to be veriﬁed by further studies.
